Who uses 2D medical imaging?
Images are taken of patients and read by a radiologist.
Radiologists are a type of clinician.
They are the primary readers of medical imaging data.
They are also highly trained experts at identifying tens of thousands of
types of abnormalities that can occur in the human body and appear on imaging.
Their role is to read images and write interpretations of the images that
can then go and be understood by other clinicians who are not experts in imaging.
These radiologist interpretations go into something called a radiology report,
which is then read by a diagnosing clinician.
This type of clinician could be an emergency room doctor,
a primary care physician,
or any other type of specialist.
While the radiologist's report may have diagnostic information in it,
for example, they might say presence of pneumonia in the lungs.
The final diagnosis always comes from the diagnosing clinician who takes
the radiologist's report into account alongside
other information such as the patient's medical history,
lab results, and current symptoms.
So medical imaging plays a critical,
but only a partial role in the diagnostic process.